Okay, so if we look at
common network topologies in AWS
it can become quite complicated.
For example, you have many VPC
and you want to peer them together,
then you want to establish some VPN connections
and direct connect,
and then you have a direct connect gateway to connect
to multiple VPC at a time, and this can become
very, very complicated in terms of network topology.
So, AWS came up with the transit gateway
to solve that problem, and you're going to have
a transitive peering connection between thousands of VPC,
your on-premises data center, your site-to-site VPN,
direct connects in a hub-and-spoke star connection.
So let's have a diagram.
We have transit gateway in the center
and you can connect multiple VPCs through
the transit gateway.
So in this example, we don't need to peer the VPCs together,
they are connected transitively through the transit gateway.
So in this example, all the VPCs can talk to each other.
But also, you can connect a direct connect gateway
to the transit gateway,
so it shows you have a direct connect connection
directly in to many different VPC.
Or if you are preferring site-to-site VPN
and VPN connections, you can connect your customer gateway
and your VPN connection into your transit gateway.
Again, one more time, giving you access to all these VPC
as part of the transit gateway.
So this really solves some network problems.
It's a regional resource and it can work cross-region,
and you can share your transit gateway across accounts
by using the resource access manager.
You can also peer transit gateways across region.
So, how do you define who can talk to what?
Well, you need to create route tables
for your transit gateway to limit which VPC
can talk to another, which connection have access
to each other and so on.
So, you get full control over the routing of all the traffic
within the transit gateway to give you network security.
So, as I said, it works with direct connect gateway
and VPN connections, and it is the only service in AWS
that supports IP multicast, so if you see IP multicast
at the exam, just know that it is transit gateway
you have to use.
So, another use case for transit gateway is to increase
the bandwidth of your site-to-site VPN connection
using ECMP.
So, it's quite technical but the question can come up
in the exam.
So, ECMP means equal-cost multi-path routing.
It's a routing strategy to allow to forward a packet
over multiple best path.
And the use case, as I said, is to create
multiple site-to-site VPN connections
to increase the bandwidth of your connection
to AWS using a site-to-site VPN.
So, let's take this example where we have a transit gateway
and we have four VPCs attached to our transit gateway,
and we have a corporate data center that is connected
using site-to-site VPN to a transit gateway.
So when you establish a site-to-site VPN connection
there are actually two tunnels, one going forward
and one going back.
When you are connecting such a VPN into a VPC directly,
both of these tunnels are used as part of one connections,
but when using the transit gateway
two tunnels can be used at a time,
so this is why you see two lines in this diagram.
But with transit gateway,
you can have multiple site-to-site VPN
so you can create a second site-to-site VPN attachment
and into your transit gateway,
so this creates four tunnels.
And so, when you have four tunnels of site-to-site VPN,
you are increasing the throughput of your connection
which is something you cannot do if you were to connect
your corporate data center directly into a VPC.
So, if you do a VPN to a virtual private gateway,
you get one tunnel, in fact one connection into one VPC,
and this connection gives you 1.5 Gbps
as the maximum throughput, and you are limited.
And in this case, a VPN connection is made of two tunnels.
But if you are using a VPN into a transit gateway,
you get one site-to-site VPN into many VPC
because they're all connected transitively
to the same transit gateway.
And also, one site-to-site VPN connection
gives you 2.5 Gbps thanks to ECMP,
because the two tunnels are going to be used
through that strategy.
But also, you can add more site-to-site VPN connections
into transit gateway, for example two or three,
to double or triple your throughputs
through ECMP.
So this is an exam question you need to know.
Obviously when you do the setup,
you're going to have to pay for each GB of data
going through the transit gateway,
so there's an added cost to this performance optimization.
Finally, you can share your direct connect connection
between multiple accounts, again, using the transit gateway.
How do we do this?
Well, we're going to establish a direct connect connection
between your corporate data center
and a direct connect location,
and then we're going to set up a transit gateway
into both VPCs in two different accounts, okay?
So this is something we can do with the transit gateway.
And then, we connect the direct connect location
into direct connect gateway and connect that gateway
into the transit gateway.
And what this just allowed us to do is to share
a direct connect connection between multiple accounts
and multiple VPC, which is very handy
thanks to the transit gateway.
Okay?
So all these sort of architectures can come up in the exam
so make sure you're familiar with understanding
how they work, and that's it for me,
I will see you in the next lecture.